# NACHO-PostProcessing 
# This repo contains the post processing code for the "CSIA-AA", "WA Seal" and AK pinnipeds repo. This repo converts raw files from the UW GC-C-IRMS "NACHO" to drift corrected data using a 12 amino acid external standard. This code does not contain corrections for an internal standard. NLE was shown to have a lower mean precision compared to other amino acids (specifically phenyalalnine) and the internal standardization was not applied. Information regarding the NACHO protocol that pertains to this repo can be found in the "Doc" folder.

# Code requires datafiles to be "cleaned" prior to analysis. This means:
# 1. peaks need to be identified. Currently, retention time gets later with each machine injection as the combustion chamber degrades. As a result a single RT for a single AA can not be applied across machine runs, particularly runs that occured weeks or months apart. Peak order could be used to code peak ID, however some amino acids occur at low concentrations, can be missing (due to low concentration), and for some tissues different amino acids are present. As a result manual peak ID allowed for the best quality control for these samples, although future users are encouraged to explore other options that suit their needs. 

# 2. the data need to be "cleaned". Different columns are included in the IsoDat data output (this can be specified at the time of the machine run). The columns that should be included to run this code are: Analysis (injection number), ID (the ID specified for the sample by the user), Retention Time, d29N, d15N, AA (the identified peak IDs either manually or from some other code), and ID2 (any other notes or information specified, usually used to specify concetration or run methods).

# 3. External standards should have a specified name that is consistent across all standard injections and should be specified in ID1 column. We use "12AA" as our identifier, any different identifier can be used but line 37 will have to be modified accordingly. 
